# Getting Started with GitHub

Just getting started with GitHub? Consult this README whenever you feel lost! We will go over how to use GitHub for collaborative work and sharing of codes, files, ect. By now you have made an acocunt and joined this organization. The next step is to [download](https://desktop.github.com/) a desktop GUI for GitHub, or learn how to use git commands in the terminal. 

## How does GitHub work? 
GitHub's greatest value is in it's file-sharing and collabortaive nature. It is essentially a giant pot of open-source collaboration across many different fields. You can find some truly awesome public repositories (where people keep files and code) if you just search around. Here's a [link](https://github.com/fivethirtyeight) to fivethirtyeight's GitHub page -- there's all kinds of cool things on there. 

On your profile and on this organization's page you can create repositories (like the one you are currently in!) to store files and code related to a particular topic. Inside of a repository, it's good practice to have a README file (like this one!) that explains the contents of the repository, any data sources, and how to run the code on your local machine (if necessary). These repositories live on GitHub, but they can be _cloned_ onto your local machine, which will create a folder on your computer with all of the files from the repository. 

You can make changes to this repository on your machine (add files, modify files, delete files) as much as you like without affecting the repository on GitHub. Once you are ready, you can _commit_ your changes to GitHub and _push_ them to the repository online. This will update the repository online with any changes you have made and your collaborators can _pull_ those changes to their local machine for the most up-to-date copy of the repository.  